README.asciidoc, before:

== Objectives

Study some Reactive Streams stuff (backpressure, etc.).

== Pre-requisites

=== Mongodb

You can install and run a Mongodb docker image:

```
docker pull mongo
docker run -p 27017:27017 --name cara-dojo -d mongo
```

== Examples

=== TwoSubscribersExample

With the http://mongodb.github.io/mongo-java-driver-reactivestreams/[Reactive Streams Mongodb driver],
all the publishers are cold.
As matter of fact, subscribing twice to a publisher will create two independant streams.


[ditaa]
----
     +-----------------+
     | {s}             |
     |      mongo      |
     |             cB8F|
     +-----------------+
      find()       find()
         |           |
         |           |
         |           |
         v           v

    subscriber1   subscriber2
----

=== RequestPaceSubscriber

This shows how the subscriber can regulate the upstream by controlling the number
of element it can handle before receiving new elements (backpressure regulation)

[ditaa]
----
     +-----------------+
     | {s}             |
     |      mongo      |
     |             cB8F|
     +-----------------+
           find()

            | ^
            | |
            | request(n)
            | |
            v |

        subscriber
----

==== ShareWithDifferentPaceSubsribers

This example illustrates how the upstream behaves with two subscribers which
request more elements at different paces.

Example1: the slowest subscriber drives the rhythm. Indeed, the Rx chain operates
on the same scheduler for the whole stream.

Example2: the upstream operates on a scheduler, while the subscribers operates
on different schedulers. `observeOn()` has by default a queue of 128.
The queue of the `observeOn()` of the slowest subscriber is full before the one
of the fastest: the fastest has to wait the queue of the slowest subscriber
gets empty.

[ditaa]
----
     +-----------------+
     | {s}             |
     |      mongo      |
     |             cB8F|
     +-----------------+
            find()
              |
              v

            share()
        ^ +-      -+ ^
        | |        | |
request(m)|        | request(n)
        | v        v |

    subscriber1   subscriber2
----

Commit message:

feat(backpressure): add an example of backpressure regulation
- a basic one with one subscriber that emulates a long
processing job

README.asciidoc, after:

== Objectives

Study some Reactive Streams stuff (backpressure, etc.).

== Pre-requisites

=== Mongodb

You can install and run a Mongodb docker image:

```
docker pull mongo
docker run -p 27017:27017 --name cara-dojo -d mongo
```

== Examples

=== TwoSubscribersExample

With the http://mongodb.github.io/mongo-java-driver-reactivestreams/[Reactive Streams Mongodb driver],
all the publishers are cold.
As matter of fact, subscribing twice to a publisher will create two independant streams.


[ditaa]
----
     +-----------------+
     | {s}             |
     |      mongo      |
     |             cB8F|
     +-----------------+
      find()       find()
         |           |
         |           |
         |           |
         v           v

    subscriber1   subscriber2
----

=== BackpressureRegulationExample

This shows how the subscriber can regulate the upstream by requesting
a new element after a long job has been processed.
The upstream must supports backpressure.

[ditaa]
----
     +-----------------+
     | {s}             |
     |      mongo      |
     |             cB8F|
     +-----------------+
           find()

            | ^
            | |
            | request(1)
            |         |
            v         |

        subscriber (process job)
----

=== RequestPaceSubscriber

This shows how the subscriber can regulate the upstream by controlling the number
of element it can handle before receiving new elements (backpressure regulation)

[ditaa]
----
     +-----------------+
     | {s}             |
     |      mongo      |
     |             cB8F|
     +-----------------+
           find()

            | ^
            | |
            | request(n)
            | |
            v |

        subscriber
----

==== ShareWithDifferentPaceSubsribers

This example illustrates how the upstream behaves with two subscribers which
request more elements at different paces.

Example1: the slowest subscriber drives the rhythm. Indeed, the Rx chain operates
on the same scheduler for the whole stream.

Example2: the upstream operates on a scheduler, while the subscribers operates
on different schedulers. `observeOn()` has by default a queue of 128.
The queue of the `observeOn()` of the slowest subscriber is full before the one
of the fastest: the fastest has to wait the queue of the slowest subscriber
gets empty.

[ditaa]
----
     +-----------------+
     | {s}             |
     |      mongo      |
     |             cB8F|
     +-----------------+
            find()
              |
              v

            share()
        ^ +-      -+ ^
        | |        | |
request(m)|        | request(n)
        | v        v |

    subscriber1   subscriber2
----
